docs: add examples for CephClient CRD use & libcephsqlite (#10725)
rook/rook: Documentation/CRDs/ceph-client-crd.md

Rook allows creation and updating clients through the custom resource definitions (CRDs).
For more information about user management and capabilities see the [Ceph docs](https://docs.ceph.com/docs/master/rados/operations/user-management/).

## Use Case: Connecting to Ceph

Use Client CRD in case you want to integrate Rook with applications that are using LibRBD directly.
For example for OpenStack deployment with Ceph backend use Client CRD to create OpenStack services users.

The Client CRD is not needed for Flex or CSI driver users. The drivers create the needed users automatically.

### Prerequisites

This guide assumes you have created a Rook cluster as explained in the main [Quickstart guide](../Getting-Started/quickstart.md).

### 1. Creating Ceph User

> To get you started, here is a simple example of a CRD to configure a Ceph client with capabilities.

Reviewer: This example creates two CephClient CRs. We just need a single one for the example, right?

Author: These CephClient CRs are from the previous documentation -- I'm not sure what the intent for use for the previous ones was... It seems like a profile that works with OpenStack Cinder and Glance? I don't use OpenStack so I'm not sure if someone who does would have found that config useful.

Is it fine that I delete them and replace with the one for this specific case?

Author: OK so it doesn't really work to have `sqlitevfs` be the name for an example case -- so I'll switch it back to `example` everywhere, and replace the existing clients.

```

### 6. Connect to the Ceph cluster with your given client ID

With the files we've created, you should be able to query the cluster by setting Ceph ENV variables and running `ceph status`:

```
export CEPH_CONF=/libsqliteceph/ceph.conf;
export CEPH_KEYRING=/libsqliteceph/ceph.keyring;
export CEPH_ARGS=--id example;
ceph status
```

With this config, the ceph tools (`ceph` CLI, in-program access, etc) can connect to and utilize the Ceph cluster.

## Use Case: SQLite

The Ceph project contains a [SQLite VFS][sqlite-vfs] that interacts with RBD directly, called [`libcephsqlite`][libcephsqlite].

First, on your workload ensure that you have the appropriate packages installed that make `libcephsqlite.so` available:

- [`ceph` on Alpine](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/package/edge/community/x86_64/ceph)
- [`libsqlite3-mod-ceph` on Ubuntu](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/package/edge/community/x86_64/ceph)
- [`libcephsqlite` on Fedora](https://pkgs.org/search/?q=libcephsqlite)
- [`ceph` on CentOS](https://cbs.centos.org/koji/packageinfo?packageID=534)

Without the appropriate package (or a from-scratch build of SQLite), you will be unable to load `libcephsqlite.so`.

> Assuming you have already *successfully retrieved and set up Ceph client credentials* using `CephClient`, you may use those credentials with SQLite by running the following:

Reviewer: How about replacing this sentence with a suggestion to create the example sqlitevfs-client.yaml? No need to copy the yaml here, but we can link to the example yaml.

Author: - [ ] link to example client file from sqlite example

> After creating a `CephClient` similar to [`deploy/examples/sqlitevfs-client.yaml`](../../deploy/examples/sqlitevfs-client.yaml) and retrieving it's credentials, you may set the following ENV variables:

Reviewer: The docs are rendered when published to rook.io, so the full URL is needed like so. It's a pain that we can't test the link before merge, but it will be fine after merge.
```suggestion
After creating a `CephClient` similar to [`deploy/examples/sqlitevfs-client.yaml`](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/deploy/examples/sqlitevfs-client.yaml) and retrieving it's credentials, you may set the following ENV variables:
```

Author: - [ ] fix link to `sqlitevfs-client.yaml`

```console
export CEPH_CONF=/libsqliteceph/ceph.conf;
export CEPH_KEYRING=/libsqliteceph/ceph.keyring;

> export CEPH_ARGS=--id example

Reviewer: How about adding a link in this section to the yaml example, and then use the example ID here?
```suggestion
export CEPH_ARGS=--id sqlitevfs
```

Author: Sure!

- [ ] rename ceph args client in sqlite example

  namespace: rook-ceph
spec:
  caps:
    mon: 'profile rbd, allow r'
    osd: 'profile rbd pool=volumes, profile rbd pool=vms, profile rbd-read-only pool=images'
```

To use `CephClient` to connect to a Ceph cluster:

### 2. Find the generated secret for the `CephClient`

Once your `CephClient` has been processed by Rook, it will be updated to include your secret:

```console

> kubectl -n rook-ceph get cephclient example -o jsonpath='{.status.info.secretName}'

Reviewer: The CephClient CR in the example is `sqlitevfs`, correct? 
```suggestion
kubectl -n rook-ceph get cephclient sqlitevfs -o jsonpath='{.status.info.secretName}'
```

Author: Ah yes, you're right -- I'll change it there too

Author: ended up moving this back to `example` because using the same client for both examples makes a bit less sense naming wise (`sqlitevfs` means nothing to someone that just wants the first section with no intent to use it for the SQLite VFS)

```

### 3. Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret

Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret (note that the subkey will be your original client name):

```console

> kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get secret rook-ceph-client-example -o jsonpath="{.data.example}" | base64 -d

Reviewer: What would the secret name be for this specific example?

Author: it would be `rook-ceph-client-sqlitevfs`, will change it to that!

- [ ] change `rook-ceph-client-example` to `rook-ceph-client-sqlitevfs`

### 4. Retrieve the mon endpoints

To send writes to the cluster, you must retrieve the mons in use:

```console
kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get configmap rook-ceph-mon-endpoints -o jsonpath='{.data.data}' | sed 's/.=//g'`
```

This command *should* produce a line that looks somewhat like this:

```
10.107.72.122:6789,10.103.244.218:6789,10.99.33.227:6789
```

### 5. (optional) Generate Ceph configuration files

If you choose to generate files for Ceph to use you will need to generate the following files:

- General configuration file (ex. `ceph.conf`)
- Keyring file (ex. `ceph.keyring`)
- File containing ceph arguments to use (ex. `ceph.args`)

Examples of the files follow:

`ceph.conf`
```ini
[global]
mon_host=10.107.72.122:6789,10.103.244.218:6789,10.99.33.227:6789
log file = /tmp/ceph-$pid.log
```

`ceph.keyring`
```ini
[client.example]
  key = < key, decoded from k8s secret>
  # The caps below are for a rbd workload -- you may need to edit/modify these capabilities for other workloads
  # see https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/capabilities
  caps mon = 'allow r'
  caps osd = 'profile rbd pool=<your pool>, profile rb pool=<another pool>'
```

> `ceph.args`

Reviewer: No need for this ceph.args file now if the env var doesn't use it anymore? Or if you really prefer it, you could keep it and revert my previous suggestion to have it inline with the env var.

Author: yeah I personally like the file, but since I went with inlining it I'll remove the file.

People can use a file and read contents if they find it easier

export CEPH_ARGS=--id example;
ceph status
```

With this config, the ceph tools (`ceph` CLI, in-program access, etc) can connect to and utilize the Ceph cluster.

## Use Case: SQLite

The Ceph project contains a [SQLite VFS][sqlite-vfs] that interacts with RBD directly, called [`libcephsqlite`][libcephsqlite].

First, on your workload ensure that you have the appropriate packages installed that make `libcephsqlite.so` available:

- [`ceph` on Alpine](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/package/edge/community/x86_64/ceph)
- [`libsqlite3-mod-ceph` on Ubuntu](https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/package/edge/community/x86_64/ceph)
- [`libcephsqlite` on Fedora](https://pkgs.org/search/?q=libcephsqlite)
- [`ceph` on CentOS](https://cbs.centos.org/koji/packageinfo?packageID=534)

Without the appropriate package (or a from-scratch build of SQLite), you will be unable to load `libcephsqlite.so`.

Assuming you have already *successfully retrieved and set up Ceph client credentials* using `CephClient`, you may use those credentials with SQLite by running the following:

```console
export CEPH_CONF=/libsqliteceph/ceph.conf;
export CEPH_KEYRING=/libsqliteceph/ceph.keyring;

> export CEPH_ARGS=`cat /libsqliteceph/ceph.args`;

Reviewer: set the CEPH_ARGS directly here too?

Author: - [ ] set ceph args directly in final instructions

### Prerequisites

This guide assumes you have created a Rook cluster as explained in the main [Quickstart guide](../Getting-Started/quickstart.md).

## Example

### Using a `CephClient` to create Ceph credentials

To use `CephClient` to connect to a Ceph cluster:

#### 1. Create the `CephClient` (`metadata.name` will be your Ceph client ID)

Apply your CephClient resource YAML (see above for an example client config) with `kubectl`:

```console

> kubectl apply -f example.cephclient.yaml

Reviewer 2: Where is this example.cephclient.yaml file? It might be best to show the example using the `ceph-client.yaml` file that has cinder and glance users.

Author: Oh I might need some feedback on that -- I don't think I made one that has *both* kinds of users. Will add this, and would appreciate some feedback!

Reviewer: Similar to `ceph-client.yaml` in the examples folder, you could create a file such as `sqlite-client.yaml`

Author: Done! I added a new file with the example from the issue comments along with some explanatory comments.

```

#### 2. Find the generated secret for the `CephClient`

Once your `CephClient` has been processed by Rook (in the rook namespace, for example `rook-ceph`), it will be updated to include your secret:

```console
kubectl get cephclient exapmle -o jsonpath='{.status.info.secretName}' -n rook-ceph
```

#### 3. Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret

Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret (note that the subkey will be your original client name):

```console

> kubectl get secret rook-ceph-client-example -o jsonpath="{.data.example}" -n rook-ceph | base64 -d

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get secret rook-ceph-client-example -o jsonpath="{.data.example}" | base64 -d
```

```

The base64 encoded value that is returned *is* the password for your ceph client.

#### 4. Determine the location of mons for the cluster

To send writes to the cluster, you must retrieve the mons in use:

```console

> kubectl get configmap rook-ceph-mon-endpoints -o jsonpath='{.data.data}' -n rook-ceph | sed 's/.=//g'`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get configmap rook-ceph-mon-endpoints -o jsonpath='{.data.data}' | sed 's/.=//g'`
```

```

This command *should* produce a line that looks somewhat like this:

```
XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:6789,YYY.YYY.YYY.YYY:6789,ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ:6789

> ```

Reviewer 2: This could get out of date over time, but that is not an issue with this documentation. Rather, perhaps @travisn and I should discuss making sure it is possible for apps in other k8s namespaces to reliably connect to the Ceph cluster directly when using the CephClient. There is a fair bit of manual work needed here that could be avoided with some additional feature work. 

I'm not sure if that should be allowing CephClients to be created in arbitrary namespaces, or if there are other solutions.

Author: Yeah this is a great point, I look forward to seeing what ya'll decide. 

Originally that's what the issue I posted was about -- trying to get this manual work to zero with a more specific CRD to basically *do* this manual work. That said, at least having it in the documentation I think is great (and was a good learning experience for me), so you should have lots of time!

#### 4. (optional) Generate/create Ceph configuration files

If you choose to generate files for Ceph to use you will need to generate the following files:

- General configuration file (ex. `ceph.conf`)
- Keyring file (ex. `ceph.keyring`)
- File containing ceph arguments to use (ex. `ceph.args`)

Examples of the files follow:

`ceph.conf`

> ```toml

Reviewer 2: Does this render better as `ini`?

```suggestion
```ini
```

[global]
mon_host=XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:6789,YYY.YYY.YYY.YYY:6789,ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ:6789
log file = /tmp/ceph-$pid.log
```

`ceph.keyring`

> ```toml

Reviewer 2: ?

```suggestion
```ini
```

Author: thanks!

[client.example]
  key = < key, decoded from k8s secret>
  # The caps below are for a rbd workload -- you may need to edit/modify these capabilities for other workloads
  # see https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/capabilities
  caps mon = 'allow r'
  caps osd = 'profile rbd pool=<your pool>, profile rb pool=<another pool>'
```

`ceph.args`
```toml
--id example

> ```

Reviewer 2: I'm having trouble understanding what the `ceph.args` file is. I assume this is meant to describe args you have to pass?

Author: hey yes, this is for the use with `libcephsqlite` -- one of the things you can specify is the args to use with Ceph -- it's not necessary in the general case, so I can move it down to the`libcephsqlite` section probably

Author: Actually thinking about it, I think it's necesary for `ceph` CLI use as well -- I guess I could change the command to `ceph status --id example` rather than specifying `CEPH_ARGS` via ENV.

What do you think?

#### 5. Connect to the Ceph cluster with your given client ID

> Using your preferred method of choice (and/or created files), connect to Ceph with the 

Reviewer 2: Sentence trails off

Author: - [ ] Fix incomplete sentence

### Prerequisites

> This guide assumes you have created a Rook cluster as explained in the main [Quickstart guide](../Getting-Started/quickstart.md).

Reviewer: Would you mind moving the prerequisites section above the "Creating Ceph User" section while you are touching this file? It should be first.

Author: - [ ] move prereq section to before creating ceph user

> ## Examples

Reviewer: The header above "Use Cases" seems sufficient, so let's remove this header

Author: - [ ] remove "examples" header

> ### Using a `CephClient` to create Ceph credentials

Reviewer: If we merge this with the above example, no need for this header either

Author: - [ ] remove header about using `CephClient` to create creds

To use `CephClient` to connect to a Ceph cluster:

> #### 1. Create the `CephClient` (`metadata.name` will be your Ceph client ID)

Reviewer: This first step looks the same as the "Creating Ceph User" section above. Can we remove this section and modify the example above to fit this end to end example?

Author: - [ ] remove added ceph client creation in favor of existing client section

Create and apply a `CephClient` resource YAML:

`example.cephclient.yaml`
```yaml
---
apiVersion: ceph.rook.io/v1
kind: CephClient
metadata:
  name: sqlitevfs
  namespace: rook-ceph
spec:
  caps:
    mon: 'allow r'
    osd: 'profile rbd pool=example'
```

The configuration above allows read access to mons, and RBD access on all OSDs via RBD targeting pool `example`. You can apply this config with `kubectl`:

```console
kubectl apply -f example.cephclient.yaml
```

#### 2. Find the generated secret for the `CephClient`

> Once your `CephClient` has been processed by Rook (in the rook namespace, for example `rook-ceph`), it will be updated to include your secret:

Reviewer: All the docs assume the namespace `rook-ceph`, no need to repeat it much
```suggestion
Once your `CephClient` has been processed by Rook, it will be updated to include your secret:
```

```console

> kubectl get cephclient example -o jsonpath='{.status.info.secretName}' --namespace rook-ceph

Reviewer: The namespace is commonly the first param for consistency in the rook docs
```suggestion
kubectl -n rook-ceph get cephclient example -o jsonpath='{.status.info.secretName}'
```

```

#### 3. Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret

Extract Ceph cluster credentials from the generated secret (note that the subkey will be your original client name):

```console
kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get secret rook-ceph-client-example -o jsonpath="{.data.example}" | base64 -d
```

The base64 encoded value that is returned *is* the password for your ceph client.

> #### 4. Determine the location of mons for the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4. Retrieve the mon endpoints
```

To send writes to the cluster, you must retrieve the mons in use:

```console
kubectl --namespace rook-ceph get configmap rook-ceph-mon-endpoints -o jsonpath='{.data.data}' | sed 's/.=//g'`
```

This command *should* produce a line that looks somewhat like this:

```

> XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:6789,YYY.YYY.YYY.YYY:6789,ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ:6789

Reviewer: example IP addresses would be nice instead of the `xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx`

Author: - [ ] use example IP addresses instead of placeholders

```

> #### 4. (optional) Generate/create Ceph configuration files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4. (optional) Generate Ceph configuration files
```

If you choose to generate files for Ceph to use you will need to generate the following files:

- General configuration file (ex. `ceph.conf`)
- Keyring file (ex. `ceph.keyring`)
- File containing ceph arguments to use (ex. `ceph.args`)

Examples of the files follow:

`ceph.conf`
```ini
[global]
mon_host=XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:6789,YYY.YYY.YYY.YYY:6789,ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ.ZZZ:6789
log file = /tmp/ceph-$pid.log
```

`ceph.keyring`
```ini
[client.example]
  key = < key, decoded from k8s secret>
  # The caps below are for a rbd workload -- you may need to edit/modify these capabilities for other workloads
  # see https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/cephfs/capabilities
  caps mon = 'allow r'
  caps osd = 'profile rbd pool=<your pool>, profile rb pool=<another pool>'
```

`ceph.args`
```
--id example
```

#### 5. Connect to the Ceph cluster with your given client ID

With the files we've created, you should be able to query the cluster by setting Ceph ENV variables and running `ceph status`:

```
export CEPH_CONF=/libsqliteceph/ceph.conf;
export CEPH_KEYRING=/libsqliteceph/ceph.keyring;

> export CEPH_ARGS=`cat /libsqliteceph/ceph.args`;

Reviewer: Why use a file if it's a simple env var? 
```suggestion
export CEPH_ARGS=--id example;
```

ceph status
```

> You are free to use your preferred method of choice (`ceph` CLI, in-program access, etc) to connect to and utilize the Ceph cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this config, the ceph tools (`ceph` CLI, in-program access, etc) can connect to and utilize the Ceph cluster.
```

> ### Using `CephClient` with [`libcephsqlite`][libcephsqlite]

Reviewer: How about keeping the title simple and keep links in the paragraphs below?
```suggestion
### SQLite Example
```
